- We've got metal.
- Hey! -Okay.
I think the right thing for us to do is
to get this material into a more
powerful microscope in a lab.
That could tell us
what elements these are made of.
- Fantastic.
- I've got some movement
on a light source near Homestead Three.
Kaleb and I are going to go check it out.
Approaching
Homestead Three with the drone.
There is no signs
of any human presence.
Look at the heat
coming out of the homestead.
It's like somebody's got a furnace on.
What in the world?
So watch what happens here..
Clearly. we've got a light source.
- And you can see the movement.
- Wow.
The question is. do we have someone
or something moving through that area?
And if that's not a person we're seeing.
- what's out there?
- I don't know what that is.
There is a ranch in Northern Utah.
It is considered the epicenter
of the strangest and most
disturbing occurrences on Earth.
For two decades.
the federal government
investigated the property.
Their findings
have never been made public.
Right there! We got something!
Now a new team
of independent scientists
and researchers are taking over.
They are uncovering evidence
that the countless stories...
It came right out of the mesa.
Of unidentified aerial phenomena...
- UAP right there!
- Yep.
Bizarre energies...
It looks like there's
a heat source right above 'em.
And portals that lead
to other dimensions...
We're maybe looking at the anomaly
for the first time. guys.
Might actually be true.
They will stop at nothing to reveal...
The Secret of Skinwalker Ranch.
Tammy.
- Nice to see you.
- Good to see you again.
Today. Erik. Jim.
Thomas and Chris are returning
to Utah Valley University
to run new lab tests
on all the strange materials
we found in the mesa
on Skinwalker Ranch.
We're going to head
into the chemistry lab
- over here today.
- All right.
- Hi. Brian.
- Good morning. gentlemen.
- Welcome back.
- Dr. Patchett.
- good to see you again.
- Good to see you.
We're pretty frustrated
that our vertical drilling
operation this year
didn't solve the mystery
of the huge object
and the smaller anomalies
that we've detected with GPR
and even hit while drilling in the past.
But we did bring up
more metal fragments
from about 60 to 70 feet deep
that have no business
being inside solid sandstone.
And then we've got the Type A
and Type B ceramic materials
that were extracted last year
at different depths.
We've only been able
to test Type A so far.
but the results suggested
they could be related
to spacecraft technology.
We've got a new member
of our team here
for the first time. Chris Roberts.
- Chris.
- This is the gentleman
responsible for the samples
that we brought in to date.
So we're hoping
that Dr. Clark and Dr. Patchett
can help us learn more
about all of this stuff
and what it could mean
about what's buried in the mesa.
So I understand
that we have the opportunity
to use a technique called FTIR...
- Yep.
- In our analysis of some of the materials.
Now. I haven't spent
a lot of time in a science lab.
so I'm not familiar with these terms.
What's FTIR? What does it mean
and what does it do?
FTIR is Fourier-transform
spectrophotometer.
And basically. it can tell us
if there's a carbon-oxygen bond
or a carbon-hydrogen bond.
- What does that mean?
- Well. it means
we could possibly date it.
With the FTIR.
we will take a beam
of infrared light.
and we will point it at the sample.
This will help us determine what
kinds of bonds are in a sample.
If we see carbon-hydrogen bonds.
we might be able to use
the samples found at the ranch
for radiocarbon dating
to find out exactly how old they might be.
So at headline level.
we're looking for insights
into how is this material made
and maybe when.
- Yes. when would be great.
- Okay.
Okay. All right.
Well. what do you say
we get some samples under test?
I was going to say.
we've got precious minutes
here at the lab. Let's make use of them.
Yeah. let's make use of it.
That's fantastic. Well. I will
leave you guys with Dr. Clark.
- Right.
- Earlier this year...
Guys. Chris has been looking
at the properties of these materials
that we've brought out of the mesa.
Chris found organic buildup
on both types of the possible ceramics.
which is caused by being buried
a very long time.
He estimated more
than a thousand years.
Now. if that's true.
it's crazy because they appear
to have been machine-made.
But when we recently had experts
from Artemis Labs in Colorado
analyze a sample of Type A.
they were unable to date it
and couldn't even identify what it was.
So. Chris. which of the samples.
will we begin with?
I'd like to start with Type A.
- Okay.
- And then we'll go to Type B.
Okay.
- So now we're ready to go with the sample?
- Yep.
I got to get this case open.
This is the Type A.
So that's a nice flat piece.
So we're just gonna...
bring that nice and snug.
- I'm in suspense.
- Okay.
Well. let's try it. We'll see what happens.
You can see that we do have
little absorbances there.
They look like little peaks.
upside down peaks.
So that means
there is some carbon in it?
It could be.
So. would we estimate
that we have enough
carbon-dating information?
Yeah. it looks like it does have
carbon-hydrogen bonds there.
So depending on the sensitivity
of that procedure.
- it should work.
- Wow.
When Dr. Clark told the guys that
the Type A sample might be able
to be carbon-dated.
that was pretty awesome news.
The only bummer is
that carbon-dating these samples
will need to be done elsewhere
and it'll take more time.
But at this point.
we're happy with anything
that feels like progress.
I feel like we should look
at another sample
- while we have the opportunity.
- Yeah. while we can.
It's right here.
This is the Type B.
Under a black light. it actually
seems to absorb light
so it goes darker than it is there.
And this is the only piece
we have of this material.
Okay. I will be very gentle with it.
I'm anxious.
What is that?
That's not the same.
It's not absorbing
any infrared wavelength.
It's just reflecting the light.
You said it's effectively
reflecting all the light back?
So there's no carbon?
- Right. for... Yep.
- Interesting.
Can you bring up Type A
- for comparison?
- Yeah. Okay. Okay.
- Whoa. Look at that.
- It's huge.
- Wow.
- This is
qualitatively different.
Yeah. this doesn't look
anything like the same.
This proves that this is a...
definitely a different material?
- Yeah. Definitely.
- All right. guys.
That piece of material definitely goes into
the scanning electron microscope.
- Yeah.
- Okay.
High priority. This was great.
- Yeah.
- Very interesting.
Thank you for doing
this analysis. Tammy.
- Thanks for coming out.
- Yeah. -Yeah.
- So. are we ready to head over to the SEM?
- Yeah.
- Good.
- All right. -Okay.
We need to take these materials.
put them under the SEM.
I'd really like to understand
what the materials are
and do more elemental analysis
and elemental mapping.
- Dr. Patchett.
- Erik. hello.
Because I feel like there are a lot
of unanswered questions
after our first examination
of these ceramic-like samples.
Well. we've got
quite an ambitious agenda.
We've got a lot of samples to look at.
So I think it's important that
we start with the Type A sample
and get that back on the stage
- into the instrument.
- Yeah.
I remember. last year it looked
like the ceramic was opening up.
physically. and creating large voids in it.
Yeah.
Are those holes getting bigger?
Yes. I think so.
When we examined the Type A sample
last year under the
scanning electron microscope.
we got some pretty amazing results.
The beam of electrons the device emits
to analyze the object
appeared to make holes open
on the sample's surface.
Let's turn it off to see
if it goes back to normal.
And even more crazy.
the holes looked like
they closed up after
we shut the electron beam off.
Look at that.
This stuff is fixing itself.
Yes. It's healing. That's exactly right.
We want to see if that'll happen again.
- Are we set to go?
- Yeah.
- I think so.
All right. so let's turn on our beam.
get a big-picture view really quick.
Okay.
The responsible thing
to do is to repeat the exercise
in the scanning electron
microscope on this Type A
ceramic-like material.
That will allow us
to confirm whether or not
the beam really is making
topological changes.
or if it was just an instrument
artifact in the machine.
There we go.
I can see the cross-hatching.
- Yeah.
- Look at that.
Let's zoom in here.
All right. you can tell
you've got charging already.
Yeah.
Okay. now. notice also the difference.
Already you're seeing.
it takes on a very porous
appearance quickly.
Yeah. this is all effects we saw last year.
- Yep.
- This just validates
that we're getting exactly
the same behavior qualitatively.
- Yeah.
- Okay.
I'm seeing the same contrast
changes that we saw last year.
Consistency is good.
and I'm more convinced than ever
that we are seeing significant effects
of the electron beam on the surface.
All right. Should we move on?
Yes. let's move on
- to the Type B sample.
- Yeah.
Now. the really interesting question
is whether the Type B material
would be comparable to the Type
A changes that we saw last year.
- It's a little dark.
- Yeah.
You know what I'm not seeing yet?
I'm not seeing any of those
conspicuous sort of openings.
Yeah. It doesn't seem to be changing.
Clearly. they are different materials.
- Right.
- Maybe they're from two
different buried objects?
Clearly. they are different
materials.
This is the first sample surface.
Maybe they're from
two different buried objects.
Yeah. the two look very distinct.
Yeah. I agree.
The behavior of this Type B ceramic
under SEM analysis
is quite different
than the Type A ceramic.
We're not seeing any of the changes
that we might have expected to see
based on our previous results.
I think it's pretty clear.
we're dealing with materials
that are completely different.
But what are they doing
inside of the mesa?
So this is one we might look
- at elemental analysis on?
- Yeah. we can do that
- right now.
- Yep.
Let's start with the Type B.
Sure. We're going
to take a spectrum of the elements
- that are on the surface.
- Okay.
It's one thing to see
the physical differences
in these materials.
But we need the elemental analysis
of this stuff to make sure they truly are
different from one another.
Okay. So we're starting to see
there is some oxygen.
quite a bit of calcium. some phosphorus.
and then trace amounts
of silicon. aluminum.
iron. sulfur. potassium.
and all these things are present
in the Earth's crust.
Okay.
Well. this isn't the answer we hoped for.
but it might give us
the bottom line on Type B.
These are the exact elements
that make up the Earth's crust.
So Type B was likely made
from materials that naturally
occur in the mesa.
But what about Type A?
We still don't know who made it
or how they made it.
Can we compare that to the composition
of the Type A sample?
Yeah.
Yeah. let me zoom in here.
Okay. There is a stronger magnesium
- that is multiple times higher.
- Okay.
And a lot more aluminum than iron.
Yeah.
Far less calcium.
They're significantly different
from each other.
Okay.
This just makes me more convinced
that we're looking
at engineered materials
- with Type A.
- Right.
I think the most important takeaway
from all the Type A materials
we found in the mesa
is that they were likely
manufactured by someone.
But who? And for what purpose?
By continuing to study them. we might
bring some kind of understanding
if not closure to the mystery
of this anomaly in the mesa.
I want to take a look
at that layered metal piece that we found
- in the mesa this year.
- Yeah.
Yeah. it looks like
it was manufactured that way
- intentionally.
- Okay.
Ceramics in solid rock is just plain weird.
And metal in solid rock
is even weirder. so.
if the metal is another part
of the object or objects
buried in the mesa.
maybe figuring out
what it's composed of is the key
to solving this whole mystery.
- Wow.
- So there's a stronger...
prevalence of iron in this sample?
- Am I reading that right?
- Yeah.
Can you zoom in
to get more precise data?
Sure.
Yeah. so what did
I just see happen here?
- It just went dark.
- Lost...
- We've lost the image.
- Yeah. it was on there.
- and then it just went black.
- Yeah.
I'm checking the filament integrity.
Because in order
to produce an image. we need
a source of electrons...
Yeah.
We have just blown our filament.
This particular filament was actually only
about halfway through its lifespan.
according to the software.
- Is that a big repair?
- Yes. it is.
Which means
we're dead in the water
until I can get that replaced.
Interesting.
The electron source. the
filament itself has burned out.
I don't know why this has happened.
The timing couldn't be worse.
This is another one of those situations
where things go exactly wrong
at exactly the wrong time.
Is it just a coincidence?
Do we assign special cause
to that? I don't know.
The good news is.
we've only made our way
through a small fraction of the spoils
that have come out of our recent drilling.
So by the time we come back.
there could be a lot more
of this material up there
to be collected and analyzed.
Dr. Patchett.
thanks again for the analysis.
It's always a pleasure
to have you guys on campus.
All right. I think it's time to pack it up.
All right.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
All right.
So. I think this is a pretty good spot. y'all.
I mean. we've got a good view in here
looking at Homestead Three.
The following day.
we set up for a new experiment
at Homestead Three. located
near the western property line
of Skinwalker Ranch.
I've not heard a lot
of history from this site.
But we do have our own experience.
And we've seen lights out here
when we were doing experiments.
Homestead Three is one
of the abandoned
early 20th-century dwellings
on the ranch.
There's very little hard
documentation of the property.
but its previous owners.
the Locke family.
reported witnessing
all sorts of strange events
while living here.
from unexplained cattle mutilations
to UAP sightings.
In 2016. just after Brandon
Fugal purchased the property.
he and Erik led a group
of scientific experts
and private security
on a tour of Homestead Three.
There. a security guard was overcome
by something
that made him go catatonic.
He ended up being okay.
but over the past six years.
our team hasn't had
any other encounters there.
That is. until last week.
Thomas is starting to pump smoke now.
We were several hundred yards
to the east at Homestead Two.
investigating a recent UAP sighting
and possible communication signals
that we detected in one of the buildings.
What is that all the way over there?
Suddenly. Erik saw a strange light
on a surveillance camera
appear over Homestead Three.
When Jim Royston tried to track it down
with his thermal drone.
the light disappeared.
But then we were all shocked
to see a massive heat anomaly
filling the main building.
Look at the heat
- coming out of the homestead.
- I know.
It was like it was
on fire in the thermal camera.
But with the naked eye.
we couldn't see anything in there.
So tonight we want to figure out
just what the heck that was.
What I was thinking is. kind of
repeat what we did at Homestead
Two with the laser grid.
Maybe put it in this window
on the north side?
And the smoke
through the door?
Thomas. what do you think?
Yep.
Just like last week's experiment.
we're going to use lasers
to project a grid of light
inside of Homestead Three.
Then we'll fill the building with smoke.
The lasers and smoke combined
will allow us
to look for anything
passing through the grid
that might be invisible to the naked eye.
Now. to add to that.
I'd like us to try something
between Homestead Two
and Homestead Three.
I'm convinced that there's
some kind of connection between 'em.
So I want to try transmitting
a 1.2-gigahertz signal here
and see if it shows up
at Homestead Two.
All right. I say we get to it.
While the rest of the team
began setting up the laser grid.
Erik and I wanted to run a little test
to see if there's a connection
between Homestead Three
and Homestead Two.
During last week's experiment.
after I broadcast a 1.6-gigahertz signal.
something seemed to clone the signal
and send it back to us
from inside Homestead Two.
Where's that signal coming from?
It was another case of something
unexplained cloning our signals.
So Erik will broadcast a new test signal
at 1.2 gigahertz from Homestead Three
for a few minutes and then turn it off.
At that point.
Kaleb and I will be monitoring
our own spectrum analyzers
at Homestead Two
to see if something clones that signal
and starts broadcasting it again.
All right. we're good to go.
Hey. Erik. We're all set up here
at Homestead Two.
Yeah. copy that.
All right. let's see here.
I don't know
what's happening right there.
That's some kind of 1.2-gigahertz signal.
See the peak right there.
Erik. did you just
turn on the signal generator
at 1.2 gigahertz?
No. Travis.
we haven't done that yet.
What in the world?
So where is this signal coming from?
Man. that's just weird.
What in the world?
So where is this signal coming from?
Look at it. It's just... I...
I don't know what's going on.
That's a pretty strong one.
All right. man. That signal went away.
It's not there anymore.
That was the strangest thing.
Before Erik even had the chance
to broadcast his test signal
at 1.2 gigahertz from Homestead Three.
I picked up that same frequency
for a few seconds
over at Homestead Two.
Before. we thought
something was cloning
the signals that we broadcast.
Now it's like it's reading our minds
and beating us to the punch.
What in the world could do that?
That's really interesting.
I wonder what that was.
Ooh. Something weird has happened
to this gamma ray detector.
Check this out.
Is that. like. damage to the screen?
Yeah. Something's fried it.
What the crap?
We always carry gamma ray detectors
to look out for radiation
spikes on the ranch.
because they occasionally
appear out of nowhere.
Well. right after that
1.2-gigahertz signal showed up.
I suddenly noticed that the screen
on my gamma ray detector was busted
and the device was fried.
Was this caused
by whatever sent that signal?
That made me want to see if Erik and I
could get something else to happen
by broadcasting his 1.2-gigahertz signal
from over at Homestead Three.
Hey. Erik. It's Travis. You copy?
Yeah. Travis.
Go ahead.
If you want to do a test on
that 1.2-gigahertz transmitter
from the table. that would be good.
Yeah. Travis.
Let me turn that on. Stand by.
All right. You should
be seeing it. We've got it
on the spectrum analyzers here.
Well...
- No.
- Not seeing it.
Nope. nothing.
I'm tuned up to 1.2.
but I'm not seeing any spikes.
Are you seeing it down there?
Negative.
I... As close as that is. we
shouldn't have any difficulty.
I mean. look. I've picked that thing up
all the way from. you know.
a mile from here.
There's only about
700 feet between Homestead
Two and Homestead Three.
Our range on spectrum analyzers
is several times that.
Let me double-check
the gain one more time.
So. was something blocking it
here at Homestead Two?
Or was it being blocked by something
over at Homestead Three?
Or something in between?
Travis. we've got
an idea down here at the table
that we want to give a try...
we're going to take
the transmitter your way.
All right. copy that.
I think we ought to see how close
we have to get to your location
before you start picking it up.
With that high-gain antenna.
you should be seeing it perfectly.
Yeah. well. we're watching.
so head our way.
Travis.
we're just about a quarter
of the way right now.
Are you seeing the signal yet?
I'm not seeing it at all down here.
That is strange.
I wonder if they're still picking it up
over at Homestead Three.
Hey. Erik. are you still seeing the signal?
Strong as can be.
Copy that. Well. we'll continue.
All right.
That makes no sense.
He literally has no antenna.
and he's picking us up fine.
Right. I'd say we're more than halfway.
- Yeah.
- We are still transmitting.
and we're more than halfway
to you. I mean. we're closer to you now
than we are the science tent.
Keep walking toward me. Thomas.
We got to figure this out.
That is just bizarre to me.
Travis. we're just
about to walk up on you now.
Come on to us. Thomas.
I want to see if we can...
I mean. I don't even need
the walkie now.
- I can hear you.
- I know.
If I can hear you. I should be
picking up that signal
like crazy.
- What was that?
You've got to be sh...
What was that signal?
It's some kind of weird signal.
Wowie. What in the crap?
My computer's locking up on me.
I'm gonna restart this thing.
Something's going on here.
like with the gamma ray detector earlier.
Thomas. can you and Jim go check
the dosimeter out back?
Let's go out and look.
I wondered if the same thing
that fried the gamma ray
detector is what caused
my computer to freeze up. And if it was.
I wanted to see if our detector
out back could verify
that a strange spike
had indeed occurred.
Showing anything?
It says "dosimeter alarm." What's that?
That means it spiked
if it went over threshold.
"Dosimeter mode dose alarm."
- Yeah.
- So it has spiked. then.
Yep. Now the readings are normal.
- All right.
- It's like
- we got nuked by something.
- It was working...
Yeah. you guys did.
I don't know what
could be there to account for that spike
on the instrument. but the fact
that the dosimeter showed
dangerously high counts of
gamma radiation is concerning.
We definitely need to find some
answers for what took place.
So. we've got
- the dosimeter alarm going off.
- Really?
Well. it spiked
- enough to trigger the alarm.
- Yeah.
Makes me not even want
to be over here.
- I know.
- I know. Why don't we
get out of here and join the
others back at Homestead Three?
- Not a bad idea.
- Yeah.
None of us felt sick
or like any radiation
physically affected us.
But since my gamma ray detector
clearly got hit
by something earlier.
and now the stationary dosimeter
is showing an alarm. too.
we needed to hedge our bets.
get out of there.
and rejoin the others
over at Homestead Three.
Look at this.
Here's the gamma ray detector.
Wow.
It was working in my pocket.
We drove down there.
I pulled it out and set it on the table.
- I watched the screen just go...
- I got you.
Well. I'm telling you. I think it's fried.
I-I mean. I think something hit it.
Yeah.
Well. look. that's a...
This has been an interesting.
bizarre thing already.
And we ain't even got started
on the experiment
with Homestead Three.
I say we go get the laser grids going
and get the smoke machines in there.
- What do y'all think?
- I am ready for it.
All right. Let's go in there.
All right. Thomas.
how are y'all setting it up back here?
- Right there.
- That's perfect. Yeah.
Well. I'm gonna head back
to the tables. All right.
After everything that happened
earlier tonight at Homestead Two.
we can't wait to see what will happen
during our smoke
and laser grid experiment
inside of Homestead Three.
They're about
to come get the smoke machines
and start smoking it up.
Yeah. Perfect.
So. we're gonna hit
that front room first. yeah?
Yeah. we'll see the beams going across.
Using a smoke gun.
we're gonna fill both rooms
of the building completely.
so if anything strange
passes through our laser beams.
it'll be easier to see
on our thermal cameras.
There was something
moving through the laser beam.
- Yeah. I see it.
- You see that?
Last week. this method helped us
see something moving
through Homestead Two.
So. we're hoping this experiment
will help identify
whatever caused the heat anomaly
we spotted here
with Jim's thermal drone.
- Yeah.
- Look.
- You seeing the smoke in there?
- Yeah. it's...
- Yeah. look at it go.
- It's going in.
- That's awesome.
- All right.
So now we're seeing the beams.
- Yep.
- That's perfect.
All right. guys.
Dude. I can see the beams
real good through there.
Let's watch and see if any...
if any anomalous behavior
happens there.
I'm not seeing anything yet.
Thomas. any chance
of hitting the front room
anymore with some smoke?
All right.
All right. Here I can see it
kind of painting the space.
- How's that?
- That's good. Thomas.
Thank you.
Hadn't seen anything anomalous in it yet
that I can understand.
Jim. you about to get the drone up?
- Yeah.
- Why don't you see
if we have anything going on
at Homestead Two?
Yep.
It's disappointing
that we weren't seeing anything
in real time on our monitors
at Homestead Three.
But since that weird
heat anomaly showed up here.
when we were running this
same experiment last week
at Homestead Two...
Look at the heat coming
out of the homestead.
It's like somebody's got a furnace on.
We wanted to see if maybe
we'd have the reverse happen
and capture something strange
over there with Jim's drone.
Drone going up.
Maybe he'll see something
that might help explain that possible
radiation spike we had earlier.
Yeah. I'm over Homestead Two.
And it's going red.
Look. I just lost RC...
- See the controller?
- Look at that.
"Controller signal weak"
right over Homestead Two.
How about that?
There's the broadcast error.
Yeah. yeah. "Failed
to obtain remote control."
As soon
as Jim reached Homestead Two.
his drone glitched. But why?
Look at that.
Why is it saying. "Unable to take off"?
It thinks you're on the ground. dude.
How bizarre is that?
Man. there is something over
Homestead Two. I'm telling you.
Well. so. your drone's messed
up. my computer was messed up.
The gamma ray detector
was nuked. It's crazy.
Aye.
Could the culprit be whatever sent
that 1.2-gigahertz signal
at the start of everything?
And was it caused
by something that was trying
to stop us from
investigating Homestead Three?
These are the kind
of questions we now have
to legitimately ask ourselves.
All right. I'm coming
right back towards us.
And look at that.
When I got out away
from Homestead Two.
- I got better.
- Yeah.
Wow. That's crazy.
All right. Thomas
and Kaleb. let's smoke it
- and do this one more time.
- Yeah. copy you.
- Go.
- All we could do at that point
was blast one more round
of smoke into Homestead Three
and hope to see
if anything would register
on our thermal cameras.
That's good. That's good.
Well. I'm not seeing anything
that is saying
unusual phenomena or anything.
I don't see anything unexpected here.
We gave it almost another hour.
but we weren't seeing
anything odd on our monitors.
I think we've got all the data
we can collect for tonight.
And who knows?
- When we process it...
- Yeah.
We might see something different.
Yeah. Yeah.
All right. guys. you can turn it off
- and come on back.
- Moving.
After all the problems
that we encountered.
all the vexing results that we got.
it invites speculation as to whether
the connection between Homestead
Two and Homestead Three
would be the cause
of these kinds of events.
I think we're all
looking forward to reviewing
the video data.
which often lends more insight
than we observed in the moment.
I don't... I don't know what to think
about what we've done so far tonight.
other than the Homestead Two
thing's got me baffled.
Yeah. that's for sure.
Well. that's kind of more concerning.
especially with what happened to that.
Yeah. That gamma
ray detector's just fried. dude.
And my computer. I think it's fried.
I don't know what to do about it.
Well. we'll certainly review
everything that we've recorded.
but this has been very interesting. guys.
- Yeah.
- Yep. All right.
- Let's just call it a night. guys.
- Yeah. let's do. -Okay.
- Hey. guys.
- Hey. there.
Very interesting set of events
that played out last night.
Late the next morning.
we all gathered at the command center
to review the processed data
from our experiment.
So. my computer was
completely dead this morning.
- Yeah.
- Wow.
Something corrupted it so badly
that I had to completely
do a factory reset
on the operating system.
and get new spectrum analyzers
and radio receivers connected
to it before it would work again.
Did the original
radio receivers get damaged
by whatever happened?
Yes. the original radio receivers
that were connected to it were fried.
The display
- on the...
- The gamma ray detector?
The gamma ray detector
bothers me. Like...
It was also connected to the laptop.
This is a very specific.
complicated kind of interference.
- Yeah. What did that?
- No kidding.
You know. we're still trying to sort out.
are we dealing with something intelligent
out there at Homestead Two?
It affected specific hardware
connected to your computer.
- Yeah. It's selective destruction.
- Yeah.
It really feels like we were targeted.
Good point. Kaleb.
Yeah. I'm 100% convinced
that it's targeted.
The craziness at Homestead Two
still has us wondering what in
the hell was going on out there.
In recent years. we've had
so many freaky experiences.
from possible communication signals.
to people suddenly becoming ill.
Heck. I was hit
by a radiation spike in 2018
that left burns on my hand and face.
It's all adding up to make us think
these things aren't random at all.
They only happen to us
when we investigate there.
So. what is it?
This is the right point
to bring up what we saw
- inside of Homestead Three.
- Yeah.
We saw no strange
activity in the moment.
so I want to review the video together
and see if we notice anything.
Yeah. Let's look at that.
Okay. So here.
we're gonna be seeing the...
you know. the room on the west side.
- Yep.
- And I'll just
let it play through.
Okay. let me stop there.
So was there anything in particular
that caught your attention?
The one question I have. Thomas.
is where was the laser beam
in this particular point?
We had it in the window
pointed straight at the wall.
That's the one thing
that's getting me confused. is
why do the beams look
like they're at an angle here.
- and they shouldn't be?
- Yes. Exactly.
They'd have to be
mounted at the ceiling almost.
The camera and
the laser were literally
right next to each other.
This doesn't add up.
They should be going out like that.
They should be more straight on
- from the camera.
- Yeah. Be flat.
It looks like these lasers
are coming like...
From the corner. It looks like
they're coming from the corner
- over there.
- Yes.
Right now. we're seeing these lasers
like they're coming down
at an angle from the right.
But based off the position
of the laser where we placed it.
we should be seeing these beams
projected almost straight on
and a little from right next to the camera.
What the heck is going on?
Yeah. now this doesn't make any sense.
All right. I'll play this through to the end.
If you do see a feature. call it out.
Now. once again.
the beams coming
from the wrong direction.
And where are the dots that should be
on the left-hand side of the wall?
Yeah. when we set it up. the beams were
hitting this... the entire wall over here.
even part of that window.
They absolutely were
hitting the entire wall.
The grid was covering the entire wall.
A hundred percent.
And we were looking at it in real time.
- Yeah.
- So. if it moved
or something bumped it.
we would've seen it.
Then this picture is just wrong.
- It's wrong.
- The beams
that we're seeing in this room
do not match where the laser was.
No.
I feel like we're in the Twilight Zone.
First. we've got lasers going in directions
that don't match
where they were positioned.
And now. a whole part of the
grid is completely missing.
So. what the heck
could have altered our video
between the time
we recorded it and now?
Could it be connected
to whatever fried my computer
at Homestead Two?
Nothing I've got to volunteer
at this point can account
for missing light over here.
Let's look to see
if there's any other images
that don't make sense.
All right. I'll continue to the next one.
Now this one's gonna take us
into the other room.
Okay.
Now that looks more like what I was...
- I would expect.
- Yes.
The first thing that jumps out to me is.
we can see the laser grid in the
room we were just looking at.
Yes. right!
And this confirms it was right where
- we thought it was.
- Which is completely not where
the dad gum thing was coming
from in that other video.
So what changed the appearance
of the laser beams?
I don't know what's going on here.
- That's weird.
- How could that
happen?
So. what changed the appearance
- of the laser beams?
- Right.
This is our positioning of the laser
relative to the window.
To the top of the window here.
It's like the image on the other camera
- was hacked and changed.
- Yep.
Last night.
when we watched the camera feed
live at Homestead Three.
the lasers that we projected
against the walls
looked straight and level. but now.
as we watch it back.
the lasers look like they're on an angle.
and some are even missing.
So. did something
on the ranch hack our video
after the fact to make it look messed up?
Or here's another idea.
Did something hack it in real time
to make it look normal in the moment.
to stop us from investigating
it right then and there?
There's one more thing I want to review.
This has to do with the thermal camera.
This is the stationary camera
facing the front door
- of Homestead Three.
- Okay.
It'll jump right out at you.
That.
Did you see that flash?
Wow. That's wild.
That is really odd and bizarre.
I've backed up by one frame.
There it is.
- Yeah.
- It's like the surface
of the homestead flashed.
This suggests
it was illuminated suddenly
with a bright. infrared source.
This was "boom!"
Like a flashbulb on a camera.
It's not a software glitch.
That looks to me
like it actually happened.
whatever it was.
There are flashes like that
that are in the infrared range of light.
They wouldn't be visible
to the naked eye.
and they could go
all the way down to maybe even
- the radio waves.
- Radio waves?
- Yeah. you could...
- Like maybe
frying circuit radio waves?
- Yeah. Sure.
- Yeah.
Same type of radio waves
that could mess up
- a spectrum analyzer?
- Exactly that.
That's interesting.
What if this is a catch.
another piece of the phenomenon.
whatever it was
that damaged my computer.
Radio frequency waves
can cause the illusion
of flashes of infrared light.
like the one our thermal camera
picked up in Homestead Three.
So. could Thomas be right
that it's related
to my computer's meltdown
over at Homestead Two?
If so. where did it come from?
And could it also be connected
to the warped laser videos
and the other things
we've recently encountered?
Well. I think what this shows us is that
the connectivity
between the homesteads...
Homestead Two and Homestead Three...
have a strange interaction.
electromagnetically and even thermally.
doing something to our equipment.
Screwed up your drone and fried
the software in the computer.
We had the laser beam that
appeared in the camera
in a place it wasn't.
So many data points
from different events that are telling us.
there's something weird
going on here. But what?
So. given what we've seen.
we need to keep investigating
both Homestead Two and Three.
This has been yet
another fascinating discussion.
A bit confusing. but. we're used to that.
- It's been a great review.
- I agree.
Okay.
Sounds good. guys.
What do we know about the connection
between Homestead Two
and Homestead Three?
This intervening space
between these two locations
continues to draw our attention.
Unexpected RF signals.
Strange things happen with our rockets
and our drone platforms.
unexpected interference.
What could be going on
beyond the bubble boundary
that could account for some
of the strange phenomena
that we've seen?
I would really like to know.
Homestead Three has been a mystery.
but these new findings. as unexplained
and mysterious as they may be.
are key puzzle pieces
to help us understand
the evolving picture
of what is behind the rich history
and the strange anomalies
at Skinwalker Ranch.
I don't know
what could be lingering inside
decaying old buildings
that would explain
what we experienced this week.
But it's clear that from the homesteads
to the mesa to the bubble.
this ranch is loaded with phenomena
that keeps testing our mettle to identify it.
And all I can say is.
"Game on. Skinwalker Ranch."
- Drones are going up.
- Sky Elements is gonna
help us scan not only inside the bubble
but much higher above it.
We're at 3.000 feet.
- Whoa.
- Drones coming down!
Drones coming down!
We arranged for Doppler radar
to hopefully see strange things.
Wow. Look at this.
Where?
Holy crap.
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-